hey what's up in this YouTube video I
want to explain to you in its simplest
terms what are YouTube Shorts YouTube
shorts is YouTube's way of competing
with Instagram reels and Tick Tock
according to research over 80 percent of
YouTube's watch hours take place on
mobile odds are right now you're
watching this video on your phone the
majority of YouTube viewers are
consuming content in a setting that's
designed for vertical videos when you're
watching a video on your phone it's more
native for it to be vertical portrait
style rather than horizontal landscape
style because that's just how we hold
our phones we use our phones vertically
and so vertical videos are really the
most popular kind of content on social
media right now the reason that Tick
Tock is as popular as it is and the
reason that Instagram focuses on reels
as much as they do is that short form
vertical video is the most engaging kind
of content on all social media and
YouTube recognizes this they're smart
and they recognize that most of their
viewers are watching from mobile as well
so they had to come up with a way for
their viewers YouTube users to consume
these short form vertical videos and let
me break down what that weird phrase
means short form vertical videos short
form just means that they're three
minutes or less on Tick Tock 90 seconds
or less on Instagram and 60 seconds or
less over on YouTube shorts so these
aren't 45 minutes long like some
podcasts are these aren't two hours long
like some YouTube videos are these are
really short videos short form and
they're vertical videos like I've
explained because they're designed for
the phone rather than being designed for
something like a computer or a TV I
think one of the beauties of YouTube
shorts as it currently stands is that
it's like the Wild West it's like the
early days of Instagram reels or the
early days of tick tock where people are
going viral for the simplest videos the
level of production and the amount of
people posting every single day is still
relatively low so it's a great time and
a great opportunity to get your foot in
the door with YouTube shorts and use
them to start growing your channel Plus
in February of 2023 YouTube is going to
introduce monetization for YouTube
shorts which means that you can start
getting paid for the views that you're
getting on your YouTube shorts It's a
powerful opportunity and the time is now
so don't wait start posting YouTube
shorts today and if you haven't already
make sure to press like on this video
and press subscribe if you learned
something new thanks so much for
watching